docs(governance): allow in-place refinement of accepted ADRs (refine vs. supersede) (#382)
aws-samples/sample-autonomous-cloud-coding-agents: docs/decisions/README.md

## References

- Links to RFCs, issues, PRs, or external resources that informed the decision

## Changelog

> (Optional; present once the ADR has been refined in place. One dated bullet per refinement. The decision date in `**Date:**` is never overwritten.)

Reviewer: Non-blocking: a freshly created ADR copies this template verbatim, so it would ship a `## Changelog` with the placeholder bullet already present — an empty-but-present section that the intro text ("present once the ADR has been refined") says shouldn't exist yet. Making "omit when first creating" explicit closes the gap.

```suggestion
(Optional; omit when first creating the ADR. Add this section on the first in-place refinement, one dated bullet per refinement. The decision date in `**Date:**` is never overwritten.)
```

Author: Applied in `b755f4c`. The placeholder now reads: *"(Optional; omit when first creating the ADR. Add this section on the first in-place refinement, one dated bullet per refinement. The decision date in `**Date:**` is never overwritten.)"*

That closes the gap you spotted — a freshly copied template no longer ships a present-but-empty `## Changelog` that contradicts the "present once refined" intent. Mirror regenerated. Safe to resolve.

- **Reversal** — the decision itself changes: a different approach is chosen, or what a reader must do changes. **Write a new ADR that supersedes the old one.** The old ADR becomes `superseded`.

**The boundary test:** *If the action a reader would take is unchanged, it's a refinement — edit in place. If a past reader following the old ADR would now do something different, it's a reversal — write a superseding ADR.*

| Change | What it is | What to do | Status effect | Date fields |
|--------|-----------|------------|---------------|-------------|
| Clarify wording; add a consequence/risk; extract prose to a guide/skill (per ADR-012); fix a broken reference | **Refinement** | Edit in place; append a dated `## Changelog` entry | none (`accepted`) | `Date:` unchanged; bump `Last-updated:` |
| Reverse the decision; choose a different approach; change what a reader must do | **Reversal** | New ADR with `**Supersedes:** ADR-NNN`; mark the old `**Superseded by:** ADR-MMM` | both change | new ADR gets its own `Date:` |
| The decision no longer applies (context evaporated) | **Obsolescence** | Mark `deprecated`; note why | `deprecated` | bump `Last-updated:` |

> This replaces strict immutability with the mainstream ADR practice. Joel Parker Henderson's widely-cited guidance notes that *"in theory, immutability is ideal; in practice, mutability has worked better for our teams"* — insert new information into the existing ADR with a date stamp and a note. MADR likewise tracks a last-updated date distinct from the decision date. The **decision date is never overwritten**; refinements are recorded in the `## Changelog` and the `Last-updated` field, keeping the record self-contained (an agent should not need to excavate git history to learn what was refined and when).

Reviewer: Two fixes in one suggestion (both land on this line):
- **Henderson quote** → verbatim two-sentence form.
- **MADR** → corrected; it uses one `date` field, not a last-updated date distinct from the decision date. The replacement notes this standard goes further.

```suggestion
This replaces strict immutability with the mainstream ADR practice. Joel Parker Henderson's widely-cited guidance notes that *"In theory, immutability is ideal. In practice, mutability has worked better for our teams."* — insert new information into the existing ADR with a date stamp and a note. MADR's template uses a single `date` field meaning "when the decision was last updated"; this standard goes further, keeping the decision `Date:` immutable and recording refinements separately. The **decision date is never overwritten**; refinements are recorded in the `## Changelog` and the `Last-updated` field, keeping the record self-contained (an agent should not need to excavate git history to learn what was refined and when).
```

Author: Applied in `b755f4c`. Both fixes landed on this line:

- **MADR** — corrected. You're right that MADR uses a single `date` field meaning "when the decision was last updated"; it is not precedent for a last-updated date *distinct from* the decision date. The line now reads: *"MADR's template uses a single `date` field meaning 'when the decision was last updated'; this standard goes further, keeping the decision `Date:` immutable and recording refinements separately."* This was a genuine error on my part (my research notes had it right; the prose drifted) — and your reframing makes the standard's two-field design read as a deliberate improvement over MADR rather than a borrowed precedent.
- **Henderson** — restored to the verbatim two-sentence form: *"In theory, immutability is ideal. In practice, mutability has worked better for our teams."*

Mirror regenerated. Safe to resolve.
